
#### Cinematic:

An old man called [[Father Brightstar]] is praying in what appears to be a church in some unrecognizable city when a younger monk enters the room in a panic. Demons and hyenas, including one giant hyena-demon with a 3 headed ball and chain, are attacking the church and massacring its occupants. A statue of a blind-folded archangel’s sword begins to glow, killing the nearby demons. The big hyena lifts its weapon to attack when thunder cracks and radiant blue light pierces the red/orange haze of the sky. An angel streaks down followed by a giant flying mammoth. The angel slashes its sword at the hyena, knocking it back into a portal opened by the mammoth. The portal promptly closes and the hyena-demon vanishes with it. As hundreds of demons and hyenas surround the area, the angel, who is blind-folded like the statue, grins, lifts its blazing blue sword, and charges at them.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Party Members:** Anders, Daven, Filo, Jonas, Spark, Vexan, Zephyr

The party has returned from discovering Elturel’s disappearance and has been traveling through Wyrm’s crossing and the outer city all day in a great procession of carts and refugees ambling towards the Basilisk gate. The throng of people circles a great mountain called the Dusthawk Hill. It is the month of Flamerule (middle of summer) and the city is hot and dusty, with congested roads. They reach the area known as Stonyeyes which houses the Basilisk gate. This area is populated mostly by half-orcs that originally came as laborers for traders who were forced to stay out of the city proper while the merchants entered within.

The Basilisk gate is closed for the day despite typically closing at night. Members of the mercenary group who serve as the defenders of the Lower City move through the crowd, occasionally interrogating refugees or inspecting wagons. They inform the party that no one gets in until the refugee crisis ends, as ordered by [[Captain Zodge]], who they direct us to for further questions, noting that there is a need for “capable men”.

[[Captain Zodge]], a tall man with an eye-patch, is standing near the Basilisk gate, at turns standing watch and violently putting down “incidents” that come up with frustrated refugees in the great mass of people. He tells us that refugees have gotten worse since Elturel disappeared. While the Flaming Fists gained more power in the local politics when its leader [[Ulder Ravengard]] became one of the Grand Dukes, he was believed to be in Elturel when the city disappeared the previous week. When telling the party that citizens are worried Baldur’s Gate might follow Elturel in disappearance. He then gives an untrusting look to the party, and particularly Vexan.

Zodge offers the party a deal to get in the city and receive payment of 200 GP each if they assist him with the [[Dead Three Cultists]], aka cultists of the “Dead Three”: Bhaal, Bane, and Myrkul. The cultists have grown more brazen since Duke Ravengard’s disappearance. Children have gone missing occasionally, and no one has been able to pin down where the cultists are coming from. Zodge directs the party to the well-known Elfsong Tavern in the Lower City, where a woman named [[Tarina]] may have information about cultist activity (though she also has dangerous friends), and lets them in. 

Inside the city, merchants are queued on the inner side of the Basilisk gate. There are few beggars, as the cost to enter the city is prohibitive. The party travels directly to the Elfsong Tavern. Being midday, the tavern is not particularly busy, with 5 or 6 human patrons, a bored looking half-ogre bouncer, and a half-elf bartender. Occasionally an eerie elvish ghost voice sings quietly in the background.

The party orders some ice cold brews and looks around the tavern. Upstairs, a Tarina-looking woman, a half-orc, and 2 halflings are playing a dice game called [[Baldur's Bones]]. After the half-orc wins, Zephyr and Jonas join the game- which the half-orc wins again. After the game, they ask the woman, who is indeed [[Tarina]], for information on the cultists. She responds that information is expensive in Baldur’s gate. The party accepts her offer to serve as bodyguards while she finishes her game of Baldur’s Bones, as there are some enemies that may have just arrived in town. Jonas passes an insight check and believes her, and Spark imbues an empty mug with the ability to record her terms. The party agrees and posts up around the tavern, with several members getting some more icy ales.

Soon, 8 swaggering suspiciously pirate-looking guys come into the tavern looking for “an old friend”, named Tarina. Filo begins to head up the stairs to warn the party and is noticed by the pirate leader, [[Lekard]]. Filo covertly throws his dagger up to the top of the stairs sticking into the wall, hoping it would alert the party (it does). Filo is not intimidated and pushes back verbally to the pirates, while Zephyr walks towards the bar. Two of the pirate henchmen stand to block Zephyr’s path, and he does a leaping flourish over them only to get punched in the side of the head by Lekard and combat ensues.

Combat is successful at great pain. At one point, Vexan seemed to be struggling to compose himself during the fight, beginning with his quarterstaff, dropping it, then using a leather-wrapped dagger as a focus to cast Eldritch blast instead. Lekard is greatly wounded and attempts to escape by breaking through the window but is taken captive by Jonas. He is tied up and brought to the upper floor, then handed over to Tarina. 

Tarina accepts this outcome as the party’s side of the bargain being completed. She explains that several blocks northwest is a public bath house with an outer wall covered by frolicking nymph carvings where [[Dead Three Cultists]] have been seen coming and going. There is a secret door from the garden that leads to a dungeon. [[The Guild]] hasn’t moved on the cultists because the bath house is owned by the powerful Vanthampur family, who are wealthy patriars. Patriars are upper class families that hold much power in Baldur’s Gate, largely living in the Upper City. She dismisses the party, then draws a knife and walks towards Lekard.